<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MJCHRN6" height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden"></iframe>
We recognize that climate change is the preeminent sustainability issue affecting all industries today and in particular, natural gas producers like EQT. Furthermore, the makeup of the future energy mix has significant environmental, social and economic ramifications for the United States and will influence future demand for — and consequently the price of — natural gas. We seek to remain informed on climate science and we are committed to understanding both how climate change affects our business and how EQT impacts climate change.
In conjunction with publishing this report, we announced our establishment of the following aggressive emissions targets for our Production segment operations:
Reduce our Scope 1 methane emissions intensity to below 0.02% (representing an approximately 65% reduction compared to 2018 levels) by or before 2025
Our Vice President, Environmental, Health and Safety, and General Counsel provide updates on our GHG emissions and reduction initiatives to the PPCR Committee at least quarterly. In response to such updates, the PPCR Committee provides comments and feedback on our GHG management and emissions reduction initiatives, which are relayed to our ESG Committee for further consideration.
Our ESG Committee, comprised of our Chief Executive Officer, General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer and other senior leaders, meets biweekly and supports the Corporate Governance and PPCR Committees in helping to guide and ensure execution of our ESG strategy. The ESG Committee also assists our executive team and senior management in developing, implementing and monitoring initiatives, processes, policies and disclosures in accordance with our ESG strategy. In combination with the Board and Board Committee oversight described above, the ESG Committee provides input to the Board on strategic direction and works with senior management and specific business departments to coordinate the implementation and execution of our ESG strategy company-wide.
Our business departments, including our Environmental, Production, Finance and Business IT teams, work collaboratively to explore and implement new technologies to collect, report, forecast and reduce our emissions in line with initiatives established by our ESG Committee. Oversight of these initiatives is managed through our digital work environment and monitored by our ESG Committee.
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.
In recent years, the effects of climate change on the planet and economy have become more apparent, and increased stakeholder scrutiny of climate change management, in combination with rapidly changing regulations, have brought this topic to the forefront of the business environment.
As the nation’s largest producer of natural gas, both the effects of climate change as well as the prevailing views on how to optimally curb the impact thereof have the potential to meaningfully impact EQT. Increased adverse weather events could affect our ability to operate on schedule, impact service providers and increase the difficulty of complying with regulations directed at mitigating weather events, such as run-off restrictions and operations in severe heat. In addition, the impacts of climate change also have the potential to affect EQT financially. As investors continue to focus on climate change management and mitigation, demand for natural gas could decrease, reducing the price we receive for our product. Furthermore, our access to capital funding could be restricted if we are unable to articulate and execute our sustainable development strategy.
Given the dynamism in the debate about the optimal manner to accelerate a sustainable path to a low carbon future, our vision for how we can best contribute to countering the effects of climate change first centers on positioning our company to be able to react nimbly and effectively as data continues to emerge and technologies continue to develop. To that end, we have spent considerable time and resources building a technological and cultural foundation within our company to allow us to adjust our corporate strategy as the balance of risks and opportunities fluctuate. We have begun to better integrate climate change into our business strategy, incorporating emissions footprint considerations into the foundation of our business. At the corporate level, we built a proprietary emissions model that will be integrated with our financial model, allowing us to layer-in different cost-of-carbon scenarios in making capital allocation decisions. Additionally, at the asset level, we are currently layering into our digital work environment the functionality to attribute emissions down to the well level, allowing us to optimize our capital expenditures by investing in the parts of our business that present the best return on investment for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
As a part of the energy mix, natural gas consumption will be directly impacted not only by the rate at which climate change effects are seen, but also by prevailing views on the best methods to mitigate future impacts of climate change. The consumption of, and demand for, natural gas can be both negatively and positively affected by either of these, in particular as it pertains to the relative market share of energy supply for power, and thus risks and opportunities exist in what we believe will be an increasingly dynamic environment.
While we have not yet conducted a formal scenario analysis to determine potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities, we plan to layer our bottoms-up analysis of natural gas supply over different demand forecasts and pricing scenarios to better understand our climate-related risks and opportunities.
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets
Our emissions depend greatly on the type and amount of field activity conducted at any given time and vary on an annual basis. We review our Scope 1 emissions inventory on a source-by-source basis to determine areas of opportunity and to monitor our overall impact.
Our Scope 1 emissions primarily originate from our operations and fleet transportation. Fuel combustion and natural gas-driven pneumatic equipment are currently the largest contributors to our Scope 1 emissions, and we therefore dedicate resources to improving these processes and equipment. We outline our environmental guidelines and data tracking expectations in our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Management System.
Through The Environmental Partnership, we collaborate with other upstream companies to evaluate best management practices for reducing emissions. Resources provided by The Environmental Partnership include programs designed to reduce methane emissions and volatile organic compounds using proven cost-effective technologies.
EQT’s 2020 methane intensity for its Scope 1 Production segment emissions is approximately 81% lower than the 2025 target set by ONE Future for the Production segment.
We currently use pneumatic level switches and liquid level controllers to set thresholds and control motor valves for managing fluid in vessels such as separators, scrubbers and contact towers. For example, we operate thousands of pneumatic controllers and level switches that regulate gas/liquid separation volumes or activate shutdowns when high or low liquid levels occur.
In 2020, we conducted an inventory of our Scope 1 emissions to determine which of our activities are the primary drivers of our GHG emissions. Based on our analysis, we determined that a substantial portion of our Scope 1 emissions are generated from natural-gas-powered pneumatic devices.
One of the most significant investments we have made to reduce emissions releases has been our investment in leak detection and repair (LDAR) surveys. Going beyond compliance with robust state and federal requirements on air emissions, our LDAR program involves:
Utilization of optical gas imaging (OGI) technology at all compressor stations, dehydration facilities and unconventional sites for conducting LDAR surveys ranging from monthly to annually, depending on the facility
A team of EQT employees who have completed a three-day training consisting of classroom and onsite experience with OGI experts, certified to operate gas detection cameras
Use of three types of OGI cameras, all verified by the manufacturer to meet the EPA’s LDAR requirements under the EPA’s New Source Performance Standards for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry
Quarterly mechanical integrity inspections for our conventional wells in Pennsylvania and quarterly visits to conventional wells with storage vessels in West Virginia to perform inspections for gas leaks
Remote gas detection monitors inside the gas processing units of our unconventional wells that monitor for leaks in real time and that automatically alert EQT’s gas control center to assign a specialist to conduct an inspection
In January 2021, we entered into a pilot project with Project Canary/IES TrustWell to demonstrate that our natural gas is produced with high environmental and social standards, and that global energy market demand exists and is growing for differentiated energy products. Under the terms of the pilot, Project Canary’s “Canary X” emissions monitoring devices have been installed on two of our well pads to measure methane concentrations at the site level every second and communicate the results to a cloud database every minute. The data collected from the emissions monitoring devices are independently verified and used to issue a TrustWell Certification certifying that gas produced from our participating well pads is “responsibly sourced natural gas.”
We are actively developing plans to increase our usage of next-generation monitoring technologies — such as those employed in our pilot project with Project Canary — across a broader portion of our asset base. While we already employ leading practices in detection, we are driven to constantly improve our ability to identify and quickly address potential emissions incidents.
Through the use of green completions technology, we did not vent or flare any gas during our completions operations during 2020, and we remain committed to zero flaring other than in emergency situations.
During the production phase of a well, our flaring and venting practices differ based on the amount of condensate and oil produced from the well. Generally, the industry considers a “dry gas” well as a well that produces water, methane and ethane but not significant natural gas liquids (NGLs), condensate or oil. A well that consistently produces natural gas in addition to condensate and/or oil is considered a “wet gas” well. Dry gas wells generally have significantly lower emissions when compared to wet gas wells and require less emissions controls. The significant majority of the wells we operate are dry gas wells and no gas is flared in connection with producing from our dry gas wells. To minimize flaring at our wet gas wells, we use various methods of emissions minimization options including the design of closed-vent systems with low-pressure separators, vapor recovery systems and vapor destruction systems.
We leverage best management practices for the installation of pilot-operated valves and latch-down hatches on closed-vent systems, necessitating the installation of low-pressure separators with vapor recovery systems during periods of high production. The valves, hatches and additional separators have significantly improved sealing, reduced leaks and led us to standardize the installation of latch-down hatches on all new installations. We conduct monthly LDAR inspections on these closed-vent systems and condensate sites.
To reduce methane emissions during production operations, we use glycol pumps rather than natural gas pneumatic pumps on existing dehydration systems to transfer bulk glycol. These pumps only emit gas embedded within the glycol and do not need to be powered by natural gas pressure, resulting in lower methane emissions. Additionally, to further minimize emissions, our standard protocol is to install condensers on new dehydration regenerator still columns. These units condense volatile liquid organics out of the gas and vapor streams collecting marketable NGLs and minimizing odors and emissions. The resulting emissions are sent to a vapor destruction unit.
Sensitivity of hydrocarbon reserve levels to future price projection scenarios that account for a price on carbon emissions
At EQT, risk management has historically been decentralized, and we are currently reorganizing our approach to create a consolidated risk function, overseen by a designated risk leader. Doing so will enable us to coordinate between risk assessment functions and establish a consistent language and methodology across groups.
To ensure we are aligned and aware of our business risks, we survey senior leaders annually to assess Tier 1 enterprise risks. Based on this survey, we create a list of our top risks and present this information to our Board of Directors on an annual basis. We also conduct quarterly follow-up assessments to re-rank top risks and identify new or more effective measures for mitigation.
Our Financial group frequently uses models to assess the impact of our identified risks. This includes financial modeling, as well as commodity forecasting. For climate change specifically, we consider risk to our business, including demand for natural gas, renewables and other energy sources. In the first half of 2021, we built a proprietary emissions model that will be integrated with our financial model which will help us better understand carbon pricing and enable us to make business decisions based on both financial and climate impact. As we consolidate our risk function, we also plan to more explicitly incorporate transition and physical risks associated with climate change into our analysis.
Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage methane, percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations
Amount of gross global Scope 1 emissions from: (1) flared hydrocarbons, (2) other combustion, (3) process emissions, (4) other vented emissions, and (5) fugitive emissions
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities.
We calculate our Scope 1 GHG emissions in accordance with Subpart C (Stationary Fuel Combustion) and Subpart W (Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems) of the EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program. Pursuant to the EPA’s rules and regulations, emissions are reported according to defined “industry segments” as opposed to a single set of emissions at the operator level. There are five industry segments under the EPA’s reporting framework for petroleum and natural gas companies: Production; Gathering and Boosting; Processing; Transmission and Storage; and Distribution. The significant majority of our operations (and consequently our Scope 1 GHG emissions) fall within the Production segment.
In November 2018, we completed the spin-off of Equitrans Midstream Corporation (New York Stock Exchange: ETRN), a separate, publicly traded company formed to hold our former natural gas gathering, transmission, storage and water services businesses (the ETRN Spin-Off). Following the ETRN Spin-Off, we no longer held a material amount of midstream assets, and accordingly, we stopped including our Scope 1 GHG emissions from our remaining limited midstream assets (which fall within the Gathering and Boosting segment) in our ESG Reports following the ETRN Spin-Off.
Although we still only own an insignificant amount of midstream assets, we are disclosing 2018, 2019 and 2020 emissions from these assets as identified below as emissions from the Gathering and Boosting segment. We have no emissions within the Processing, Transmission and Storage or Distribution segments.
While we have not historically tracked our Scope 2 GHG emissions (i.e., indirect GHG emissions from purchased electricity to power certain of our operations), we developed a methodology to calculate these emissions in 2020, and are including the data for the first time in this report. A third-party entity, typically a utility, generates these emissions at their facility.
The two prevailing methods for calculating Scope 2 GHG emissions are the market-based approach and the location-based approach. Under the market-based approach, Scope 2 emissions are calculated based on the reporting company’s contracts with electric utilities. Under the location-based approach, Scope 2 emissions are calculated based on the average emissions intensity of the reporting company’s local power grid. We use the location-based approach to calculate our Scope 2 emissions.
Similar to Scope 2 emissions, we began efforts to track and understand our Scope 3 GHG emissions (i.e., other indirect emissions) in 2020. There are 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions. To fully understand our Scope 3 emissions, for 2020, we calculated our Scope 3 emissions within all 15 categories. We then conducted a materiality assessment to determine which of the 15 categories are material to helping our stakeholders understand our Scope 3 emissions impact.
As is the norm within our industry, the substantial majority of our 2020 Scope 3 emissions were generated from category 11 (use of sold products). As such, we are reporting only Scope 3 emissions from category 11, which is also in line with the industry benchmarking analysis we conducted as a part of our Scope 3 materiality assessment.
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets
To further demonstrate that our impact on climate change is a priority for EQT, we have tied our 2021 incentive compensation program, under which our executives and other employees participate, to a reduction in our Scope 1 GHG intensity.
As is demonstrated by our emissions intensity targets, we are planning to achieve our goal of net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions by or before 2025 primarily through operational improvements. In fact, we have already made a significant amount of headway in our efforts to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions in advance of establishing this target. For example, by transitioning to a combo-development strategy, exclusively employing electric frac fleets and other operational initiatives, we have been able to cut our combustion emissions in half between 2018 and 2020, despite maintaining flat production levels.
In 2020, we conducted an inventory of our Scope 1 emissions to determine which of our activities are the primary drivers of our remaining GHG emissions. Based on our analysis, we determined that a substantial portion of our Scope 1 emissions are generated from one piece of equipment — pneumatic devices.
We are committed to rapidly deploying our pneumatic device replacement program — a program which is already underway — with a goal of completely eliminating natural gas-powered pneumatic devices from our operations by 2023, representing a substantial portion of our emissions reduction efforts.
While we are already operating at an industry-leading emissions intensity level — in part driven by prior adoption of emissions-friendly operational technologies like electric frac crews and hybrid drilling rigs — we fully anticipate additional opportunities for operational improvements above and beyond our pneumatic device replacement initiative, albeit of lesser impact, to contribute to achieving our net zero goal.
As a demonstration of this commitment, in 2021, we announced our participation in the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0, a Climate and Clean Air Coalition initiative led by the UN Environment Programme, in partnership with the European Commission, the UK Government, the Environmental Defense Fund and other leading oil and gas companies. Pursuant to the OGMP 2.0 framework, we will endeavor to achieve a “gold standard” emissions monitoring strategy, which leverages modern emissions monitoring technologies across our asset base to demonstrate verifiable achievement of “near zero” emissions intensity by or before 2025.
We are also committed to doing what we can — in light of who we are — to accelerate a sustainable pathway to a low carbon future. In one regard, this means leveraging the impact of our operating model through consolidation, and thereby accelerating a reduction of emissions within the natural gas production industry. In another, it means buttressing our efforts to reduce our emissions with carbon offset creation opportunities. In addition to generating credits that could be attached to our products to facilitate the establishment of differentiated products markets, we believe that opportunities exist for us to create offsets through activities that are consistent with our core competencies.
Offset generation represents a portion of our plan to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by or before 2025. Given the varying maturity of technologies underpinning offset generation opportunities, we are contemplating principally relying on more proven offset opportunities to achieve our net zero goals, such as land management and biological carbon sequestration initiatives. We plan to execute on these opportunities organically, leveraging our extensive landowner relations function. As context, our ability to offset the remaining emissions associated with our Production segment operations following our elimination of natural gas-powered pneumatic devices could be achieved by executing on these types of programs covering less than 3% of our total acreage footprint alone.
Additionally, while our net zero target does not include our Scope 3 emissions, we are exploring ways to meaningfully impact the emissions impact of the use of the products we sell and of others in the industry. As we noted above, our recent technological and cultural transformation has instilled across our organization the mentality, approach and nimbleness necessary to adapt in dynamic environments. These changes have been intentional and were pursued in part to allow EQT to evolve. The reality is that we do not believe that setting a net zero Scope 3 emissions target at this time is the optimal manner for EQT to contribute to an acceleration of a sustainable pathway to a low carbon future.
Across the industry, there is a growing movement to divest high carbon intensive operations or assets in order to achieve corporate net zero targets. The problem with this approach is that the divested assets continue in operation, in many instances shifting to operators who are not subject to public scrutiny. In essence, it represents a shifting of emissions out of the hands of accountable operators — driven by a desire to achieve a corporate net zero goal — not a reduction in emissions aligned with achieving our collective emissions reduction goals.
We are taking the opposite approach. We believe our track record demonstrates both that we are a committed leader in emissions reduction and field measurement efforts and that we can advance the rate of improvement in meeting a 1.5-degree scenario through consolidation. Although consolidation would inherently ascribe to our Company Scope 3 emissions of any future acquired operations (emissions that would exist even if they were not acquired by us), it also puts those operations in the hands of stewards that will be accountable for accelerating emissions reduction efforts. We believe that advancing the collective goal of accelerating a rapid reduction of emissions of the industry should be the driving factor in shaping our strategy, and we will do just that.
To that end, we believe that we will have a competitive advantage in emerging energy transition technologies. We believe that our leadership has a demonstrable leading-edge track record in assessing and commercializing emerging technologies. When combined with being the largest producer of low-cost, low-carbon intensity natural gas, we believe we have a competitive advantage as opportunities develop. In furtherance of this, in 2021 our Board of Directors authorized the creation of an innovation fund, establishing a $75 million pool of capital that we can use to develop, invest in, partner with and acquire new ventures or otherwise pursue initiatives aligned with our ESG strategy through 2025. Our guiding principles on allocating capital to new ventures generally center around (i) promoting natural gas demand and participating in the low carbon transition, (ii) leveraging our assets, skill sets and relationships to capture opportunities, (iii) targeting opportunities for meaningful scale and growth, (iv) deploying proven technology and (v) improving our ESG reputation.
We believe these goals provide the right prioritization and targets to guide our strategy and decision-making throughout the Company, will continue to position EQT as a leader and the energy industry, and will accelerate a sustainable pathway to a low carbon future.
